#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Runtime debugging tools
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once B2G is flashed, it will be necessary to debug it for errors.
 The following set of tools should help to debug the mobile, from booting
 to first sight of homescreen
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Kernel logging
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is possible to get the kernel messages onto the mobile screen.
 This will be useful if the kernel gets loaded but the mobile gets stuck
 at a certain point before b2g process starts.
 To do so, the kernel messages must be redirected to standard output, 
\emph on
tty0.

\emph default
 It must be changed in the 
\emph on
BoardConfig.mk 
\emph default
file.
 The following line should be edited
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
BOARD_KERNEL_CMDLINE := mem=211M console=ttyMSM2,115200n8 androidboot.hardware=u8
150
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
to 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
BOARD_KERNEL_CMDLINE := mem=211M console=tty0,115200n8 androidboot.hardware=u8150
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This would output all the kernel messages to the mobile screen.
 However, the messages scroll very fast.
 A workaround would be to take a video of the boot process and split the
 video into images and analyse them
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Android Debug Bridge
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Android Debug Bridge (adb) is a versatile command line tool that lets you
 communicate with an emulator instance or connected Android-powered device(
 Quoted from 
\emph on
developer.android.com
\emph default
 ).
 ADB can be used for the following:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Installing applications
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Copying files from host to mobile and vice versa
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Getting a log
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Getting a shell for the mobile
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The last feature can be used for debugging purpose.
 The shell is a linux shell, with all the basic linux commands.
 Through shell, the following two tools can be used for debugging
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
dmesg gives the kernel logging.
 This can be used to find out if the low level drivers are working and that
 the file systems are working as expected
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
logcat provides a mechanism for collecting and viewing system debug output.
 Logs from various applications and portions of the system are collected
 in a series of circular buffers, which then can be viewed and filtered
 by the logcat command.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
GDB
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The gdb program is the most prefered way of debugging errors.
 Unlike a normal debugging session, in which a program is compiled and gdb
 is started, debugging for mobile requires a host program and a target program.
 A 
\emph on
gdbserver 
\emph default
program is required on the target mobile and 
\emph on
gdb
\emph default
 is required on the host.
 The 
\emph on
gdbserver 
\emph default
program must be forwarded to a port and should be attached to a program
 to debug it.
 
\emph on
gdb
\emph default
 should be listening to the same port to output the debug information onto
 the console.
 A simple implementation would be
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
adb shell LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/data/local/gdbserver :8080 /system/b2g/b2g
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
gdb -x b2g.gdbinit out/target/product/u8150/obj/objdir-gecko/dist/bin/b2g
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The gdbinit file defines the path to look for symbols and executables.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The file 
\emph on
run-gdb.sh 
\emph default
file in the B2G directory automates this whole process.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
